mariadb: add page (#15771)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/common/mariadb.md

# mariadb

> The mariadb Command-Line Client tool.
> More information: <https://mariadb.com/kb/en/mariadb-command-line-client/>.

- Connect to a specific MariaDB database:

`mariadb {{db_name}}`

> - Connect to a specific MariaDB database {{db_name}} using {{user_name}} and {{your_password}}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Connect to a specific MariaDB database using username and password:
```

`mariadb --user={{user_name}} --password={{your_password}} {{db_name}}`

> - Display help and exit:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Display help:
```

> `mariadb -?, --help`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`mariadb --help`
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`mariadb {{[-?|--help]}}`
```

- Show warnings after every statement in interactive and batch mode:

`mariadb --show-warning`

> - Be more silent. Can be used multiple times to produce less output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Display less verbose outputs:
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Display less verbose outputs (can be used multiple times to produce less output):
```
I would keep the additional note about using it multiple times to clarify the command example.

> `mariadb -s, --silent`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`mariadb {{-s,-ss,-sss}}`
```

Please fix this accordingly, I'm unsure if its correct, but based on most commands, 3 `s` is probably the max.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`mariadb {{-s|-ss|-sss}}`
```
This would be preferable.

Reviewer 3: No reason. Felt nicer to have it condensed like that.

> - Execute SQL statements in a script file (batch file):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Execute SQL statements from a script file:
```

> `mariadb {{db_name}} < {{/path/to/script.sql}} > {{/path/to/output.tab}}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`mariadb {{db_name}} < {{path/to/script.sql}} > {{path/to/output.tab}}`
```

We use relative paths when available.

- Check memory and open file usage at exit:

`mariadb --debug-check`

> - For connections to local host , Unix socket file to use, or on Windows, the name of the named pipe to use:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Connect using a socket file for local connections:
```

> `mariadb -S, --socket={{/path/to/socket_name}}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`mariadb -S, --socket={{path/to/socket_name}}`
```
